# Introduction to 2048 Program Developed at CGI Lab

This page introduces the design of the 2048 program, developed in [Computer Games and Intelligence (CGI) Lab][cgi_lab], led by Professor [I-Chen Wu][icwu], at [Department of Computer Science][nctu_cs], National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, Taiwan; and also acknowledges the contributors who are/were the members of the CGI lab.

---

## Design of 2048 Program

Source codes, statstic of performances, and more implementation details can be found at [GitHub (2014)](https://github.com/CGI-LAB/Taiwan_Bot_Tournament_2048) and [GitHub (2015-present)](https://github.com/moporgic/TDL2048) .

### Authors

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Hung Guei (桂浤)</td>
<td>2015 June-Present</td>
<td>Main author for the 2048 program, based on Optimistic Temporal Difference Learning and Expectimax Tree Search.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Kun-Hao Yeh (葉騉豪)</td>
<td>2014 May-November</td>
<td>Main author for the 2048 program, based on Temporal Difference Learning and Expectimax Tree Search.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Chao-Chin Liang (梁朝欽)</td>
<td>2014 May-July</td>
<td>Co-author for the 2048 program.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Chia-Chuan Chang (張家銓)</td>
<td>2014 July-November</td>
<td>Co-author for the 2048 program, helped improve 2048 and applied to Threes.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>I-Chen Wu (吳毅成)</td>
<td>2014 May-Present</td>
<td>Supervised the whole project.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Achievements

- The state-of-the-art 2048 AI program as of November 2021, namely an average score of 625,377 and a rate of 72% reaching 32768-tiles ([link][ref_otd]).
- The first 2048 AI program reached 65536-tile ([link][ref_mstd]). <!-- broken link! See the [replay](http://2048.aigames.nctu.edu.tw/2048/replay.php). --> For sufficiently large tests, 65536-tiles are reached at a rate of 0.02%.

### Features

- Variants of Temporal Difference Learning: [Multi-Stage Temporal Difference Learning][ref_mstd], [TD(λ)][ref_mstd], [Temporal Coherence Learning][ref_tc], [Optimistic Temporal Difference Learning][ref_otd], etc.
- N-Tuple Networks: Features representation suggested by [Szubert and Jaśkowski][ref_td], and by [Matsuzaki][ref_ntn].
- Expectimax Tree Search with transposition table and [tile-downgrading technique][ref_otd].
- Effective bitboard move generation and tile generation.
- Fast single-threaded evaluation: More than 1,500,000 moves and 4,000 moves per second when using 1-ply and 3-ply expectimax search, respectively.
- Fast multi-threaded training: More than 10,000,000 states per second when using 20 cores.

### Competitions

<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>Year</th>
<th>Competitions</th>
<th>Place</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2016</td>
<td>Computer Olympiad</td>
<td>1st place (Gold)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2015</td>
<td>Computer Olympiad</td>
<td>1st place (Gold)</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2014</td>
<td>Taiwan 2048 Bot Contest</td>
<td>2nd place (Silver)</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Publications

#### Journal Papers

- Hung Guei, Lung-Pin Chen, I-Chen Wu, "Optimistic Temporal Difference Learning for 2048", accepted by the IEEE Transactions on Games, 2021.
- Hung Guei, Tinghan Wei, I-Chen Wu, "2048-like games for teaching reinforcement learning", ICGA Journal, Vol. 42, No. 1, January 2020.
- Kun-Hao Yeh, I-Chen Wu, Chu-Hsuan Hsueh, Chia-Chuan Chang, Chao-Chin Liang, and Han Chiang, Multi-Stage Temporal Difference Learning for 2048-like Games, IEEE Transactions on Computational Intelligence and AI in Games, Vol. 10, No. 4, pp 369-380, December 2017.
- Kun-Hao Yeh, Chao-Chin Liang, Kuang-Che Wu, and I-Chen Wu, 2048-Bot Tournament in Taiwan, ICGA Journal (SCI), Vol. 37(3), September 2014.

#### Conference Papers

- Hung Guei, Tinghan Wei, I-Chen Wu, "Teaching Reinforcement Learning and Computer Games with 2048-Like Games", The 33th Annual Conference of The Japanese Society for Artificial Intelligence (JSAI 2019), Niigata, Japan, June 2019.
- Hung Guei, Tinghan Wei, and I-Chen Wu. Using 2048-like Games as a Pedagogical Tool for Reinforcement Learning. International Conference on Computers and Games (CG2018), New Taipei City, Taiwan, July 2018.
- Hung Guei, Tinghan Wei, Jin-Bo Huang, I-Chen Wu, "An Empirical Study on Applying Deep Reinforcement Learning to the Game 2048", the Workshop Neural Networks in Games in the International Conference on Computers and Games (CG 2016), Leiden, the Netherlands, June, 2016.
- I-Chen Wu, Kun-Hao Yeh, Chao-Chin Liang, Chia-Chuan Chang, and Han Chiang, "Multi-stage Temporal Difference Learning for 2048", the 2014 Conference on Technologies and Applications of Artificial Intelligence (TAAI 2014), Taipei, Taiwan, Novemeber 2014. (Best Paper Award)


[icwu]: ..
[cgi_lab]: https://cgilab.nctu.edu.tw/
[nctu_cs]: https://www.cs.nycu.edu.tw/
[ref_td]: http://www.cs.put.poznan.pl/wjaskowski/pub/papers/Szubert2014_2048.pdf
[ref_mstd]: https://doi.org/10.1109/TCIAIG.2016.2593710
[ref_tc]: https://doi.org/10.1109/TCIAIG.2017.2651887
[ref_otd]: https://doi.org/10.1109/TG.2021.3109887
[ref_ntn]: https://doi.org/10.1109/TAAI.2016.7880154